Please carry out a pre-publication security and reliability hardening pass on the existing Renewal Scout application.

Do not rebuild the application, change the current Node/React/Express architecture, redesign the interface, or remove existing functionality. Do not make any real OpenAI API calls while testing; mock the OpenAI client.

Make the following changes:

OPENAI

1. In research-service.ts, replace the hard-coded "gpt-4o" model with:

   process.env.OPENAI_MODEL ?? "gpt-5.6-terra"

2. Replace the legacy web_search_preview tool with the current web_search tool.

3. Set tool_choice to "required" because every completed comparison must use current web research.

4. Extract URL citation annotations from the Responses API output. Merge these verified citation URLs into report.sources and ensure the frontend displays them as clearly visible, clickable links.

5. Retain the strict structured-output schema and all existing safety instructions.

6. Validate the parsed report at runtime instead of relying only on a TypeScript type assertion.

AUTHENTICATION AND SECURITY

7. Remove the "dev-only-change-this" SESSION_SECRET fallback in production. Refuse to start a production deployment if SESSION_SECRET is missing or too short.

8. Configure Express for Replit's reverse proxy using app.set("trust proxy", 1).

9. Replace unrestricted:
   cors({ credentials: true, origin: true })
   with a strict same-origin production policy. Development origins must be explicitly allowlisted.

10. Add CSRF protection or strict Origin validation to every state-changing authenticated endpoint, including service create/update/archive, research, due-check and logout.

11. Add rate limiting to /api/auth/login.

12. Use crypto.timingSafeEqual for password comparison and regenerate the session after successful authentication to prevent session fixation.

13. Add appropriate Helmet security headers.

14. Replace the default express-session MemoryStore with a PostgreSQL-backed session store using the existing DATABASE_URL.

RESEARCH JOB SAFETY

15. Fix executeResearch so a queued job is atomically claimed. Only one process may change a run from queued to running and call OpenAI. If a run is already running or complete, return without calling OpenAI again.

16. Add recovery for research jobs left in running status after a server restart. Mark stale jobs failed or safely requeue them.

17. Prevent duplicate scheduled and manual OpenAI calls for the same run.

SCHEDULER

18. Keep SCHEDULER_ENABLED as an explicit setting, but add a visible authenticated setup warning when it is absent or false.

19. Document that the production secret must be:
    SCHEDULER_ENABLED=true

20. Confirm that only one production server process starts the scheduler.

INPUT VALIDATION

21. Require costs to be zero or positive.

22. Validate renewalDate and contractEndDate as real ISO YYYY-MM-DD dates.

23. Trim providers and other short text fields before saving them.

24. Enforce suitable maximum lengths on all free-text fields.

NOTIFICATIONS

25. Restore optional email notifications when research completes. Use SMTP through Nodemailer, with secrets for SMTP_HOST, SMTP_PORT, SMTP_USERNAME, SMTP_PASSWORD, SMTP_FROM, ALERT_EMAIL and APP_BASE_URL.

26. Email failure must never discard or fail a completed research report.

TESTING AND DEPLOYMENT

27. Add tests covering login rate limiting, cookie security, CSRF/origin protection, authorization, duplicate research prevention, scheduler enablement, stale-job recovery, URL sanitisation and mocked OpenAI output.

28. Run the complete typecheck, unit tests and production build.

29. Verify the production run command, the single external PORT, database schema application and production database connection.

30. Do not publish the application. At the end, provide the exact files changed, test commands, results, remaining warnings and the production secrets I must add.

Do not expose, print, log or modify the values of any existing secrets.